Thank you.
Hello everyone !
I want to make this presentation in French because it seems to me that the culture's minister, Audrey Azoulay,
is committed to maintaining a top position
that the French-talking communities have in the world.
I myself learned French at school and I feel really in ease to speak with you in Molière's language.
In Voltaire's one…
But… not on the «Bitcoin» subject…
(Applause)
It tried to translate some of the words using Google
I asked, translate for me the word blockchain and google said
blocks [french] and that seemed a bit
strange and it said [french] block chain and
I thought isn't it la block chain and I
asked what is block chain and google
said [french] I asked for the translation
of Bitcoin and it said [french] and finally
I said how do I explain the DAO to a
French audience and they said just say
[french] and at that point I quit so I
will deliver the rest of this
presentation in English and I apologize
because I cannot really deliver in your
beautiful language that I spent many
years learning because of more than 20
years of lack of practice so I want to
talk to you today about
a form of payments peer-to-peer payments
that are prolific a form of payments
that are near instantaneous transaction
free direct from person to person secure
convenience and have been around for
thousands of years in that form of
payments is cash but cash won't be
around for thousands of years more cash
is going away and we haven't quite
considered the implications one of the
beautiful things about cash is that it
enables a true peer-to-peer
person-to-person economy cash is the way
you transact in your local community
cash is the way you pay your small shop
your music teacher cash is the way you
pay the local farmer credit cards don't
work like that credit cards and bank
payment systems and mobile money in
paypal and venmo they're not
peer-to-peer they're not
person-to-person their person to
corporation to corporation to
corporation to person when did we invite
all of these corporations to participate
in our commerce as intermediaries when
did we invite them into every
conversation it feels the same but it
isn't when I go to the local bakery and
instead of cash I give them a credit
card to me it feels the same the
experience from my perspective is
person-to-person
and instantaneous convenience and
without fees but that is not the
experience that the Baker has the Baker
doesn't get paid the Baker doesn't get
paid sometimes for 30 days sometimes not
at all because fraud has occurred and
when they do get paid two percent of it
goes to someone who didn't add any value
to that transaction they just processed
it that is if that someone that
corporation decides they want to pay the
Baker because if you come from a place
like Greece where I come from or from
Cyprus Argentina Venezuela Kazakhstan
Ukraine or many other countries in the
world one day the banks say no not your
money anymore you thought it was your
money it was alone and we just defaulted
and can't pay you back there's something
really magic about cash because as a
system of commerce it has allowed us for
thousands of years to interact quickly
conveniently with other people without
surveillance by governments without
corporations in between without fees
without any of those things and now we
stand in 2016 on the cusp of eradicating
in cash you hear the propaganda cash is
for criminals because after all who
would want to pay other people when it's
so easy to just pay corporations that
Bay corporations that pay corporations
that pay people I didn't invite them
into my transaction they invited
themselves and I don't like having to
make a system of commerce where it is
automatically assumed that as a human
being my main role is to be a consumer
not a producer of goods not a provider
of services because to be a provider or
producer I have to receive permission
apply for merchant accounts pay fees
it's so much easier to just be a
consumer it's so much easier to assume
that from now on everything that I ever
transact will be produced by a
corporation and my role is to just
consume and what does that do to our
society it destroys community it
destroys small shops it destroys
freelance entrepreneurs sole proprietors
workers it means that every interaction
you have is not with the person who made
your food it's with a person employed by
a corporation that outsources the making
of your fruit somewhere else and when I
bought meat from my butcher if one day
my butcher put wood chips saw wood fiber
into my meat I would go back and I would
go what the hell just happened why is
there wood chips in my needs but if an
executive at a corporation who aren't a
very prestigious mba sees a proposal
from a consultant that says fiber
enhancement of meat products plus two
percent profit and they sign someone a
thousand miles away puts wood chips in
your meat and when you go back to the
butcher they say I don't make it
complain to the corporation we're
destroying community by disengaging
commerce from something that happens
between people and introducing in every
transaction the idea that you must
always trade through a corporation that
is your intermediary that you must
always lend
not pay deliver credit not value cash
has some unique characteristics cash is
a system that is a push transaction
meaning that I'm not authorizing someone
to take money out of my pocket I take
money out of my pocket and I push it to
the other person and the money they get
is the money I just pushed they don't
get to come back ten days later and make
another debit from my pocket how did we
suddenly change that every system of
payment in our society as a pull system
how did we suddenly change where every
transaction I make I am authorizing
someone not only to take money now but
maybe take money again and again or
maybe lose my access controls and some
hacker can take money again and again
cash is a bearer instrument that means
the value is in the instrument itself
it's not a promissory note it doesn't
represent a promise that you will be
paid later it is a bearer instrument
which means you are paid now and the
thing about promises is that promises
can be broken cash doesn't represent the
issuance of debt it represents the
transmission of value cash is
instantaneous you get the value and can
spend it immediately not 30 days from
now let me ask a quick question if I
wanted to give you five euros for coffee
how many of you will take visa today? No
one? You mean the only way i can pay
other human beings is with cash the
thing that we are about to make illegal
because apparently an ancient technology
for human payments
could only possibly be used by criminals
the definition of a criminal is anyone
who isn't a corporation, pretty much so
what is Bitcoin what are these open
global blockchains that we're talking
about what is so special about Bitcoin
or Ethereum or any of the other systems
that are open global borderless neutral
payment systems that allow open access
open innovation access without
permission participation from anyone
anywhere in the world Bitcoin was
created by Satoshi Nakamoto and in the
title of his paper he said a
peer-to-peer system of electronic cash
cash this is not an electronic bank
account this is not an electronic bank
this is not a digital credit card this
is not an electronic payments network
this is electronic cash and it has all
of the unique characteristics of cash
that make it so precious it is
peer-to-peer i can pay anyone in this
room five euros equivalent in bitcoin
like that not here to corporation to
peer person to person directly i can
engage in trade with every person in my
community directly when i pay someone it
is a push transaction which means that
they receive the value immediately and
they cannot charge me again for more
value later they have no access or
authorization to my accounts. I didn't transfer access i transferred value a
bearer instrument that transmission
happens near instantaneously you can
spend a Bitcoin transaction five or ten
seconds after i send it to you it
happens for
almost no fees at all just a few pennies
just to cover the network costs and it
allows us to do everything that cash has
allowed us to do for thousands of years
oh except for one thing this form of
cash i can send to kuala lumpur in five
seconds, why? why the hell not? because I
want to I can send it across borders I
can send it to a farmer in Kenya to a
fisherman in Indonesia I can send it to
someone in South Africa, why? why the hell
not? it's my money I want to trade with
the world I am a citizen of the world
and with a form of electronic cash I get
all of the benefits of cash plus I can
email it across the world in a few
seconds bitcoin is a very important
technology because it enables us to
re-engage with a concept of using money
as a form of payment between people not
corporations it allows us to engage in
commerce without surveillance without
corporate interaction without blocks on
my accounts without freezes and fees and
compromises and theft and corruption it
means that my money is not sitting in a
bank being re-loaned to some war
criminal somewhere using it to bomb some
country it's my money not somebody
else's money it's not a loan without
interest to the banking system it's my
money it's cash in my pocket this is an
interesting principle really the idea
that you can bring money back to three
basic core principles:
Liberté, fraternité, égalité
thank you